Some notes on the types of files
=====

This list might be out of date as we clean up the files.

SRC (6573) - source code files
----

Source code that need to be passed through the ADC pre-processor to
create Fortran files for compilation.

ADC is a pre-processor which implements syntax for code inclusion and
for code variants.

The initial purpose of ADC (Add Common) was because the PDP11 Fortran
compiler didn't implement an INCLUDE statement, so rather than have
multiple copies of the structure definitions for common data areas,
there was one definition (in a .CMN file), and the source was
pre-processed through ADC before going into Fortran.

All ADC directives begin ***

* INCLUDE - include the named file.src
* COMMON - include the named file.cmn
* PARAMETER - include the named file.par
* IF - start of conditional block
* UNLESS - start of conditional block (if not condition)
* IFT - else following conditional
* IFF - else following conditional
* IFTF - end of conditional block
* END - end of conditional block
* IDENT - Record what is being compiled
* MODULE - Record which module of code is being compiled - written to the adc.ide file/

As ADC was in use, it was then extended to read truth files, that
could then do conditional code, initially so single source file could
do both PDP11 and VAX.

If given the debug flag (DEBUG option) then lines which were commented
out with a leading 'D' or 'd' would be uncommented. However if comments
were being suppressed then it would not be generated.

Comments (full line) could be suppressed globally (COMMENTS option) or
only in included files (COMMENTS.OUTER option).

ADC was written in BCPL, and ran on PDP11/RSX and VAX/VMS. However, we
had no BCPL compiler for Alpha, so it was rewritten in C. The command
line syntax for the C version is very different, so there is a DCL
jacket (ADC.COM) which looks at the architecture and invokes the
appropriate pre-processor.

TRU (8), TR (0) - Truth files
----

Used to control which blocks of code are included in the Fortran from
the .SRC files.


FOR (109), F (359) - FORTRAN source code
-----

CMN (930) - FORTRAN common block declarations
-----

PAR (233) - parameter files
-----

Included from FORTRAN files.

STR (4) - FORTRAN structure declarations
-----

Included from FORTRAN files. NB Non-standard VMSFortran extension
which appears to emulate C structures and unions.

COM (697) - command files
-----

Includes commands to create the software as well as the commands to
execute it. "These are DCL command procedires for carrying out
housekeeping functions, and running certain programs."

CLD (116) - Command description file
-----

File describing a command to the system - what arguments it takes etc..

OPT (85) - Options to linker file
-----

Options, libraries to link with etc.

C (50) - C souce code.
-----

H (41) - C public definitions.
-----

PAS (39) - Pascal
-----

MAR (342) - MACRO souce file
-----

Input source file for the VAX MACRO assembler or the MACRO-32 Compiler for
OpenVMS Alpha

MAC (71) - Assember (machine code)
-----

MAPID (121) - linker output
-----

Could be useful to historians, consider as text documentation. They list the
date of last edit for every module that was linked together to make up an
executable -  a bill of parts. They are log outputs, not source.

UPD (110) - Update history (plain text)
-----

Yet more hints about the history.

REV (10) - Reverse engineering notes
-----

Probably historical.

CHART (7) - Charting call graphs
-----

Probably historical - horizontal format, suspect manually generated.

TREE (8) - Call tree.
-----

Probably historical - vertical format, autogenerated.

RNO (39) - Release note
-----

DOC (8) - Plain text documentation
-----

Not "Word" documents.

HLP (9) - Input source file for help libraries (text)
-----

HLB (3) - Help text library file (binary)
-----

These are files containing on-line help information for certain programs.

LATEX (2) - LaTeX document
-----

RCP (4) Raster Control Point files
-----
(example output files?)

RCM (7) Rover CoMmand
-----
(example log files?)

MOSS (2) - GENIO MOSS files (CAD)
-----

Example output files?

BCPL_SRC (2) - BCPL source code
----
For internal development tools?

BPL (2) - BCPL source code?
----
For internal development tools?

CMD (11) - LITES2 command files
----

SQL (5) - "Saved SQL statments"
----

IDE (1) - Idents
----

Created by adcc command - lists the idents and dates from the source
files used to create the real Fortran code to be compiled.

EXE (0) - Program executable files. 
----
Not present in a source code repository.

IFF (0) - Internal Feature Format (binary).
----
These are maps in digital form, created by digitising or input from
another system.

FRT (21) - Feature Representation Tables
----

DTI (0) - Raster data files (binary).
----

DEM_SCAN.F_ILLINOIS - hacked FORTRAN source
-----

Minor changes from DEM_SCAN.F. Presumably not included in product.

DEMB.CMN_ILLINOIS - hacked FORTRAN common block
-----

Minor changes from DEMB.CMN. Presumably not included in product.

JNCTEX.F_JMC - hacked FORTRAN source
-----

Minor changes from JNCTEX.F. Presumably not included in product.

To be documented...
-----

Or maybe deleted:

* MES 115
* LCM 43
* CDL 43
* TXT 41
* FRM 34
* DAT 34 - data file
* LIS 26 - Listing file created by a language compiler or assembler; default input file for the PRINT and TYPE commands 
* FRT 21
* FLG 11
* TKB 10
* NTF 10
* LNK 9
* PAT 8
* ICON 8
* LOG 7 - Batch job output file
* BAT 7
* HDR 6
* SIF 5
* FAC 5 - input file for generating licences.
* 001 5
* V7 4
* TJL 4 - binary - editor journal file - probably junk.
* PS 4 - POSTSCRIPT format file
* NTF_ATTR 4
* FTN 4
* FCP 4
* EXAMPLE 4
* DESCR 4
* TSK 3
* ONE 3
* LOT 3
* INC 3
* GENVECT 3
* GENTEXT 3
* FDF 3
* DEF 3
* DBG 3
* BNT 3
* TMP 2
* TEMP_COM 2
* TDST 2
* T 2
* ST 2
* PSFONTLIST 2
* PRIO 2
* PGH 2
* NOD 2
* NFSE 2
* MEM 2
* LST 2
* LSL 2
* IIF 2
* I2SXF_PAR 2
* GLO 2
* GENMSG 2
* GDB 2
* FCT 2
* EXP 2
* DTA 2
* CODES 2
* BPL 2
* BCPL_SRC 2
* ATT 2
* ALL 2
* ACT 2
* 999 2
* 1ST 2
* 003 2
* 002 2
* XXX 1
* UIM 1
* UIL 1
* TRAN 1
* TEST 1
* TEMPLATE 1
* SXF 1
* SUNIL 1
* STRUCT 1
* SRC_VAX 1
* SRC_JMC 1
* SPEC_NTF 1
* SHO 1
* SFO 1
* SEA 1
* SDF 1
* SCI 1
* SAMPLE 1
* RECODE 1
* README 1
* RDO 1
* PSW 1
* PRI 1
* PPP 1
* POSTSCRIPT 1
* PAS_VW 1
* PAS_TA 1
* PAS_KR 1
* PAS_HU 1
* PAS_HP 1
* PAS_GP 1
* PAS_DS 1
* ORIG_SRC 1
* ORIG_COM 1
* ORIG_92 1
* ORIG89 1
* OLD_COM 1
* ODL 1
* NOTES 1
* NFF 1
* NEW_SRC 1
* NEW_COM 1
* NEW 1
* MAP 1
* LIN_VW 1
* LIN_TA 1
* LIN_KR 1
* LIN_HU 1
* LIN_HP 1
* LIN_GP 1
* LIN_DS 1
* KEP 1
* JIF 1
* INS 1
* INF 1
* INDEX 1
* IFJ 1
* FUN 1
* FLB 1
* FCC 1
* FC 1
* ENB 1
* DST 1
* CREATE 1
* CONFIG 1
* COM_VAX 1
* COM_OLD 1
* CODE 1
* CMN_NEW 1
* CFD 1
* BUG 1
* BCK 1
* AJW 1
* ACD 1
* 016 1
* 015 1
* 014 1
* 013 1
* 012 1
* 011 1
* 010 1
* 009 1
* 008 1
* 007 1
* 006 1
* 005 1
* 004 1
